---
layout: post
title: "Inside the Mind of a Computational Chemist: Emmanual Cortes" 
author: Jefy Jeffy 
--- 

Today, I had a chance to meet (virtually) and speak with a real life computational chemist, Emmanuel Cortes. Cortes was born in Mexico but movedd to the United States at the 4 and has lived in California ever since. Currently, he lives in the Bay Area and loves the weather. He has not had a chance to go back to Mexico since coming to States, but hopes he has a chance to visit soon. Emmanuel mentioned that one of his favorite foods is Lasagna, and pastas in general; however, he dislikes mushrooms due to their texture. I claim that he would absolutely love mushroom, if prepared well. So here's to hoping that Emmanuel dares to eat mushrooms cooked in the south Indian style. 
Despite our differing opinions on mushrooms, Emmanual and I have quite a bit in common as we were both born outside of United States. Additionally, both of our undergradute major was in Chemistry and our undergraduate research focused on computational chemistry as well. Although we had similar research backgrounds, Emmanuel primarily worked on applying Density Functional Theory on transition metal complexes. As he goes through the program, he aims to develop his computational chemistry skills and apply it towards research in drug design and better treatments. Currently, he works as an front end engineer for an ecommerce website. 
Lastly, Emmanuel mentioned that if he could be any animal he would be a dog as they seem very happy, playful, and just full of joy. He also mentioned that if he could meet any famous person from history, he would meet Chopin, a polish composer, to learn more about his ideas and methods of creating music. Who knew computational chemists are so fun! 